Do you believe our government has made
contact with intelligent
extraterrestrials?
>> Something I can't discuss in public
setting.
[Music]
>> What is the deal with UFOs?
Does your government want you to believe
in aliens?
Should you believe in aliens?
These are questions that my guest this
week thinks about a lot. She's a
professor of religious studies who
writes about UFO encounters as a very
modern form of ancient spiritual
experience, but she also seems to think
that they're a little more concrete than
that. Diana Walsh Pulka, welcome to
Interesting Times.
>> Thank you so much. Happy to be here. So,
we're going to start by talking about um
what the UFO phenomenon is, especially
as it relates to your own academic work.
And we're going to get into strange
lights in the sky and government
conspiracies probably as we go. But I
want to start uh where your work starts
at a more personal level with individual
experiences, encounters, abduction
narratives, conversations
uh and so on. So you're a professor of
religious studies. Why don't you talk
about how religious studies led you into
the UFO experience or the UFO debate?
>> Yeah, so I've been studying religion for
many years. I study at the University of
North Carolina in Wilmington. I've been
a practicing Catholic for almost my
entire life and I studied Catholic
history and so I've done a lot of
looking into popular culture and how
this forms belief about Catholic ideas
like afterlife uh other worlds things
like that. So I didn't believe in UFOs
had never seen close encounters of the
third kind. I wasn't a person who was
interested in that topic. Um but I was
interested in the ways in which people
thought of transformation, spiritual
transformation but also transformation
that happens on earth through these
narratives of going into another place,
another you know an otherworld journey.
>> And how did that pull you into studying
people who claim to have had a UFO style
encounter? Okay. So, when I was um doing
my work for the book about the Catholic
doctrine of purgatory, that brought me
to a lot of archives. And so, I'd go
into the archives. And archives are
places where things aren't digitized,
right? And so, I started to look into
how Catholics viewed how souls ascended
into heaven or purgatory. And what I
found was a lot of documentation from a
thousand years ago, uh, 800, 500 years
ago about recorded sightings of aerial
phenomena that Catholics had from
Europe.
>> And these are these are things flying in
the air.
>> Yeah. Aerial phenomena. So, you know,
they they interpret interpreted these in
different ways. Uh, here's a good
example. So in the 1800s there's this
young nun and she's living in a convent
and every night this ball of light comes
through her cell and she's pretty upset
about this. So she tells the mother
superior and she says you know this is
happening and the mother superior says
you're having a bad dream and so the nun
is pretty certain this is happening. and
happens nightly. And so, um, at one
point, the mother superior says, "Okay,
I'm going to be with you at night to see
what's going on." And they determine
that this is a soul from purgatory that
needs to be prayed back into purgatory.
So, the whole convent gets together and
they go through a process of prayers to,
you know, kick this this orb or this
flame of light out of her cell. Um, so
these kinds of things I I saw and I
started to keep track of them. Sometimes
they were interpreted as flying houses.
Um, sometimes they were interpreted as
little beings, you know, about 3t tall
and shiny. And, um, I shared this with a
couple friends of mine. And I said,
"What do you all think of this?" And one
of them said, "It looks like modern-day
reports of UFOs." And that shocked me.
And I thought, "Oh, uh, I didn't accept
it to tell you the truth. I thought it
was, you know, hogwash. I was like, no,
that it can't be that." Um, there was in
town there was a UFO conference, the
Mutual UFO Network. And so I decided to
check that out. And when I was there, I
heard people talking about their
experiences encountering UFOs. And it
sounded very similar to the log I had of
reports of Catholics in Europe talking
about this. And so I started to do a lot
more intensive work. Um I met academics
who were studying this and before I knew
it I was um people who were a part of
aerospace companies and the military um
begin to want to correspond with me and
see the data and the research that I had
been doing. So that's what got me into
this topic.
>> All right. So we're going to save the
aerospace communications for a little
further on in the conversation. I want
to talk about the details of UFO
experience. Right? So when you say you
went to a conference, you started
talking to people who had these
experiences.
Are we talking about sort of the classic
X-Files abduction narratives where
people report being taken up into
spacecrafts? Are we talking about things
that are sort of more more sort of
intimate and personal? Give give me a
couple examples of what we talk about
when we talk about UFO encounters in the
21st century.
>> Okay. So the people who were at the
conference uh had had UFO encounters and
often what this entails is a person will
see something in the sky an aerial
phenomena um if it's an intense
encounter they will call themselves an
experiencer where they have an
experience of a being um you know or
some kind of telepathic communication
with the aerial phenomena itself and
this will shift their world right this
will change them and some of the people
believe that they're getting special
information or they've had this
experience and and you know none of
their neighbors have had this experience
so they feel kind of special about it
but the experience is a pattern match to
the experiences that I saw from 500
years ago 200 years ago
>> what so what when you when people report
having a telepathic connection you said
they get information from or they feel
like they've gotten information from
these kind of experiences what kind of
information do they get? What does that
mean when people report this?
>> So, a lot of the people would report the
information as something that had to do
with the future. So, they would have um
ideas of basically like an apocalypse, a
bad scenario for the future. So, the
people who I talked to at this
conference were pretty convinced that we
were, you know, going to face some type
of a cataclysm.
So I talked to them a little bit about,
you know, how people have thought that
for about 2,000 years and, you know, so
it hasn't actually happened. Yeah. So it
hasn't really happened like they thought
they it would. So when they have these
experiences and they get this
information,
um it's it a lot of times makes them
upset because, you know, they're
thinking that the end of the world is
going to happen. Are are a lot of these
people who you've talked to having what
we think of as sort of the classic
abduction story where they feel like
they've been taken to a different place,
taken onto a ship, these kind of things.
Or is it more sort of this kind of just
interpersonal communication with some
kind of light or being?
>> It's both. So the classic image of the
alien abduction, you see a farmer
generally, right, being abducted into a
spaceship. So that's like the meme that
we see. We also see a cow, right, going
up into the spaceship. These are, you
know, they're ascending into a
spaceship. If you were to see how souls
in purgatory are uh shown in paintings
from the 1400s, the 1500s, you'll also
see them ascending into, you know,
spaces uh you know, aerial spaces. So,
yeah. So, are people experiencing
journeys into other spaces, spacecraft?
Are they seeing things um that are, you
know, uh not of our reality? Yes, that's
what they're having. and they're having
those kinds of visions definitely.
>> And so one of the books that I read when
I think it was around the time that UFOs
kind of came back into the news, um
which would have been when my own
newspaper, The Times, reported on weird
sightings of aerial phenomena by US
pilots, right? And I had not, you know,
I watched the XFiles in the 1990s. I had
not been a UFO person in any meaningful
sense of the term. Um, but I got sort of
sucked into reading a little bit of the
literature. And one of the most
persuasive books that I read was by a
sort of famous UFO researcher shrouded
in mystery, a guy named Jacques Valet,
right, who obviously you're you're
familiar with. and he wrote books pretty
early I think in the sort of modern UFO
phenomena where he connected this not
just to sort of past religious
experiences but also to a whole realm of
folklore right around let's say fairy
abductions and I thought Valet's
argument was quite persuasive that there
is this kind of persistent phenomena in
human history that suddenly gets
reinterpreted
as the space age dawn in terms terms of
creatures from other planets, but in
fact is this kind of folklore substrate
that just sort of takes different forms
depending on the cultural the cultural
context. And that seems to be a version
of the argument you're making in linking
modern UFO sightings to yeah the
experience of Catholic nuns or religious
mystics in the past.
>> Right. So you so you think you think
that whatever we call the UFO phenomena
is something that has a it doesn't start
in 1947 with Roswell or anything like
that. There's some sort of consistent
historical phenomenon that's part of
human religious sociology.
>> Yeah. So one of the first books I read
when I made the turn to study UFO
beliefs and practices was Jacques's um
Passport to Monia um which is a great
book. One of the many great titles of
books in the UFO in UFO literature. Yes.
>> And to me it really looked like a
religious studies book, you know, like
the here is this. By the way, he's a
really interesting person who's an
information scientist. So, he's able to
do this work on archival materials just
like I did. So, Jacques links it to
fairy folklore, but he also looks at uh
the phenomena uh since uh until 1860,
something like that, the industrial uh
industrial revolution. He stops because
he knows that by that time we have
things in the sky that are ours. Um so
1947 marks a a specific time period
where the idea of the UFO becomes it
basically hijacks this kind of perennial
idea of angels and things like that you
know aerial phenomena in the sky that
that's not when it begins but that's
when it gets hijacked in my opinion
>> right that's that's when it becomes a
narrative that is connected to ideas
about space alien life um you know
flying visitors from literal other
worlds, not from supernatural dimensions
and so on. That's right.
>> But there but one one thing that's been
really striking to me is that,
>> you know, there are ways in which UFO
experiences look like kind of this this
raw material of religion that hasn't yet
been forged into any kind of fully
coherent belief system. So, and and I'm
curious where, you know, you you're
writing about this as a religious
studies professor and sort of framing it
in part as kind of the almost the
development of a very American 20th and
21st century form of religion. Um, but
it seems to be a form of religion that
is completely agnostic and uncertain
about what it's actually describing,
right? like people, you know, there's
people with every theory under the sun
to explain what they're what they're
experiencing. So, I'm I'm curious what
what you what are the actual beliefs of
the UFO community to the extent that you
can describe them and do you think do
you think that there's a coherent
religious vision or is it just this kind
of raw material where every every person
has a different interpretation?
>> Yeah, that's a great question. So what
I'm suggesting and I I say this in my
book American Cosmic is that this is a
new form of religion. Actually coherence
is not going to be a feature of this
religion. This is a religious
development and it's decentralized. And
the reason it's decentralized, it
doesn't have a pope, you know, it
doesn't have uh the one experience or
although there are UFO religions and you
know like realism. Um and these come
these are they come about in the 19
through the 1940s to the 1960s. But then
what you see when we get the internet
>> g give just just to pause realism was
the cult right remind everyone what
realism was or is. It is a UFO religion
that originates with um Rael. I can't
remember his actual name, but he's a a
French man in the 1970s. He has a UFO
experience
>> and he's abducted or I don't think he'd
call it that because it's a pleasant
experience for him. Um
>> he's enlightened.
>> Yeah. And so he comes back and he
spreads the message and uh this is now
uh religion. It's called a new religious
movement. That's how we would describe
it in religious studies. Um, one of them
also is the Nation of Islam. Okay, so I
can talk about both of those. These are
both apocalyptic religions in that they
believe that the end is soon. Okay. And
that the the end will come with the
arrival of a spaceship. Okay. And
>> but the spaceship but the spaceships are
the good guys.
>> Yeah. In both of those religious Yeah.
The spaceships are the good guys. That's
correct.
>> So they're bringing peace. They're
bringing peace. enlightenment and so on.
And but when we say it's a religion, do
we mean that there is a kind of
supernatural component, a spiritual? Are
people praying to the aliens? Like what
what makes this different from
>> Is it just that the right is the line
just totally blurry that it's like you
know they're acting like the spaceships
are angels but they're calling them
spaceships like
>> um well you have you know an advanced
being here who's you know going to bring
uh a wandererous world to these people.
So it may not conform to what you
consider to be a traditional religion
like Catholicism but Buddhism doesn't
conform to Catholicism either. So each
of those Nation of Islam and the rails
railism this is these are tra
traditional religions like they conform
to what people in my field would call a
religion um do they
>> do they uh pray do they have practices
uh yeah they do have practices they're
different so Nation of Islam has a
completely different type of practice
than the uh realism they do
>> Nation of Islam just just to clar Nation
of Islam basically folds a kind of
extraterrestrial narrative into a sort
of Islamic style of monotheism. Right.
So, it's sort of effectively integrating
>> ideas about other worlds into
>> an Islamic framework.
>> Yes, it does. Yes. Yeah. And it's
specifically an American um religion.
So, it's it Islam doesn't recognize
them,
>> right?
>> So, traditional Islam does not recognize
them. So those so those are examples
where UFO experience gets basically sort
of taken into or takes a traditional
religious shape. There's someone who has
an experience they have a prophetic
narrative, right? And people there's a
set of rituals and beliefs and people
subscribe to it. But then go so then go
on and talk about talk about the
decentralized form.
>> So that's that's the religion of the
past that we're not going to see that
anymore. So the internet comes along.
>> Why not? Wait, why not? Why are we not
tell you.
>> Okay, tell me. Sorry.
>> Yeah. No, that's okay. So, the internet
comes along and what it does is it it
creates a decentralized
uh space. When people now see aerial
objects, what do they do? They take
their phones out and they record their
experiences and they upload them to
social media platforms. And so, this
gets then folded into um different
different narratives. So, we're not
going to see uh a co like a coherent
traditional religious framework right
now because we're in a different
infrastructure. Things aren't going
back. Um but no, we're not going to see
this kind of coherent
uh UFO narrative unless it comes from
the government itself, which I think is
happening.
>> Okay. So, it's the internet that is
fundamentally decentralizing.
>> Oh, absolutely. Yes. Because people who
have these experiences can go online and
see for for instance that they're not
unique, right? That there's other people
who've had these kind of experiences. So
that means they're less likely to think
ah there must be one special prophet of
the UFO message and they're more likely
so many prophets now, right? So many
people. everyone. So, everyone is
entering into this kind of ongoing
conversation in which each new
experience is just something to to talk
about and and argue about,
>> right? And there is, at least here in
the United States, there's a give and
take with the narrative that comes from
DC Congress about the topic of UAP. And
so, that's an ongoing feature of this
what I call a religiosity. So, it's a
new form of religion. It is a
religiosity. So it's different than
traditional religions.
>> Okay. So let's All right. Let's I've
been resisting it, but let's let's go
towards Washington DC, right? Because
someone I think could could take up the
argument you're making and say, "Ah,
yes, you know, there are these
experiences throughout human history and
they reflect some kind of yungian
unconscious manifesting itself in dreams
and hallucinations or they reflect
persistent patterns in mental illness,
right, that are sort of material causes
that that are understandable. But I
think what makes this different as you
keep suggesting right is that it
interacts with the government, with the
national security state, with people
inside the government who have beliefs
about UFOs and you know may try and leak
or make claims about UFOs and so on. But
I want to stick I want to stick with
your biography for a minute, right? You
mentioned earlier that once you started
researching this subject, you started
getting communications from people
inside the government or inside the
aerospace industry. What what form did
those communications take?
>> Correct. Okay. So when I started the
research for American Cosmic, I said,
"Okay, this is going to be pretty easy
because we have the internet here and we
have all of this data and it's pretty
obvious what's happening." And about a
year after I started to do this, um, I
would get emails, um, and oftentimes
people that I knew would reach out to me
and say, "So and so got a hold of me.
This is a person who works at this
company. There's space related
research." Um, and they would like to
talk with you. Are you comfortable
talking with them? Um, people who
emailed me uh again were from legitimate
aerospace companies and were interested
in seeing the research that I did about
angel contact events and things like
that. So then I began to share
information with these people. Uh, and
you know, I had read Jacquallet's books
and so forth and other people's books
and I recognized that I might be
identified as a person who could spread
disinformation. So that was always on my
mind as well as I was, you know, working
with these people. At this point, these
people didn't care if I was going to
ever publish anything again. They were
just interested in what I had done and
they wanted to look at it. Um, so and
they they had actual jobs doing this
work. So that was eye opening for me.
>> What without obviously betraying
confidences, when you say they had jobs
doing this kind of work, what does that
what does that mean? They were employed
by
NASA or Northrup Grumman or someone like
that to research aerial phenomena. Like
their job was director of aerial
phenomena research. Like what do we
mean?
>> Yeah. They wouldn't have a title like
that. So they at this point, you know,
this is pre207
when Leslie Kaine and Blumenthal, you
know, okay. Um, the New York Times
>> pre20 2017 again for the audience is
when
>> the New York Times published stories
about
military pilots encountering aerial
phenomena and it sort of opened an era
of new debate about these things but
sorry go on
>> so yes that's right so this is pre207
this is around 2013 to about that time
period and uh they have you know various
titles they have quote unquote day jobs
as say a mission controller at Cape
Canaveral. Um things like that. And um
they would s they would say this and
almost all of them called it this. They
said my um my hobby job. They would call
it their hobby. And so they would um
some of them would go to places that
they called crash retrieval places and
they would um look for debris from UFO
crashes. And then they would, you know,
they would find scientists who would be
able to look into the debris and find
out if it was anomalous. So this is the
type of research that they were doing.
Some of them worked with astronauts,
trained them and so forth. So it was
various pe types of people in jobs.
>> But their hobby jobs as you call them,
these are these are this is off the
books work. The US government is not
paying them to do the research. you're
describing they're doing it on their
own.
>> I don't actually know that but that's
what they you know implied.
>> That's what they mostly said. They
mostly said this is something I'm
interested in because they made a
differentiation. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Okay. So go on. So you had this
kind of contact with them. This is all
before the times reported on these
things. So how did that develop to the
point where you you took the idea that
there's an objective reality here
seriously?
Even after writing American Cosmic, I
was uh I I still was not a non-believer.
And I wouldn't say I I wasn't a
disbeliever, but I was I was on, you
know, I was open to being convinced.
Okay, I was open to being convinced and
um
there were a lot of scientists around
me. I was in embedded research. Okay.
So, I I was part of their community and
um and still am actually. And so, you
know, this afforded me an insight into
their lives and their lives were
basically dictated by this type of
study. So, um some of them had
constrained lives and what what I mean
by that is that um you know they had
security clearances and things like
that. So in a sense it was they were
most likely part of intelligence
communities too
>> and when they would reach out to you
they would send you an email like how
>> sometimes it was an introduction. So
after the first few emails with certain
of them um I got an introduction from an
experiencer to a person who I met at a
conference which was an American Academy
of Religion conference and um you know
so I met this person publicly like in a
public space um because you know I
wasn't used to talking to people like
this
for most of my life and um anyway it was
um I got an insight into the lives that
they led
and I became convinced that the
government was definitely doing
something related to this. Uh whether or
not it was actual UFOs, I honestly don't
know, but I know that it's something
that is um definitely these people are
involved in doing and it's part of a
secret program and that was something
that was that came out in the 2017 New
York Times article
>> that there was
>> there's this these programs are yeah
there are there's a government program
studying this
>> UFOs UAP,
>> right? But the official line of all
these entities has been the US
government doesn't have, you know, a
secret program that, for instance, has a
lot of material that we think is from
other planets or anything like that,
right?
>> Yes.
>> There's no
>> correct.
>> So what you're So what you're talking
about is in effect
>> private information.
you have private reasons to think that
the US government effort goes beyond
just collecting data and videos and
trying to resolve anomalies.
>> I mean, this has been stated by people
who are affiliated with the military.
So, it's not necessarily private
information to me or to people who have
been watching the news. My understanding
is that there's a set of people
including former defense department
officials, various people who have said
one consistently there's a bunch of
aerial phenomena that we don't
understand that our pilots see that we
have video of. Some of the video has
been released. Some of it as far as I
can tell from my own private
conversations is classified. Um but
that's sort of publicly stated that
there's some things we see in the sky
that we don't understand. Then we have
also publicly stated that look the US
government you know we we research this
stuff. We've set up sort of dedicated
groups that are researching it but their
public statements are limited to you
know we're trying to resolve anomalies.
We don't know anything about secret
programs. And then you have starting
after 2017 a set of whistleblowers or
would be whistleblowers who have come
forward who have testified before
Congress who have written books saying
actually
the US government people in the US
government know more about this than the
public statements are letting on. There
are secret programs. There are you know
materials held by defense contractors
that people think come from other
worlds. These kind of things, right? So
I'm I'm just trying to distinguish
between those two layers. They're sort
of public information is
>> Yeah. I have a question for you. So the
people who are the whistleblowers, are
these not also people who are part of
our government
>> and employed by our government? No, they
are.
>> Yeah. Okay. So what's the difference
then? So we have Yeah, we have I agree.
Well, wait, wait, wait. So we have this
is what's confusing and I think we are
should be rightly confused here because
I I believe that this confusion keeps
people from wanting to do the research
because you have the government right
you have the whistleblowers who are
working for the government and people
who have written the books like Lou I
lozando had been working for the
government in one of these programs says
this this is still happening and we also
have people like Tim Galidet who's an
had, you know, Rear Admiral um you have
Colonel Carl Nil um stating that, you
know, there's no doubt that this is
happening, that aliens exist or, you
know, that this phenomena exists and
we're studying it. Um so you have those
people coming out and then you have
another part of the government who's
coming out and basically denying this.
So it's very confusing to a person who
wants clarity. And as for me, I try to
stay out of it. So, I'm not on any side.
I'm watching this happen just like you
are and just like other people are. And
um you know, I might have more insight
into what's going on on you know,
because I I know several of these people
um on both sides, you know, both on the
part where people are basically saying
it's all it's all, you know, not real. I
know those people and I know the people
who are saying that it's real and it's
uh it's definitely something that's not
transparent. It's definitely not
transparent and I think that what you
just described is a good description of
my own perception that there is people
who work within the government who some
of themselves believe that there is a
real phenomena or related to or
overlapping with that want some want
Americans to think there's a real
phenomena and then there is a official
government narrative that you know
there's some weird stuff out there um
But the government doesn't know any more
than you or I do. So I'm but I'm trying
to push I'm trying to push through that
a little bit. Right. So I want to go
back to your own I want to go back to
your own story because yes you said
you're an observer. So at a certain
point in the mid2010s then you're
talking to people connected with the
government who let's say overlap with
the kind of people in terms of their
perspectives who came forward as
whistleblowers saying look there's real
stuff here and the government knows it.
What convinced you? Because you just
said you weren't a believer, implying
that you became a believer. What about
those conversations convinced you that
you aren't just doing sort of sociology
of religion here that there is sort of
actual things in the sky or wherever
else that people are in touch with.
>> Okay. So, part of it was that and by the
way, I don't advocate believing this for
anyone. They have to do their own
research. So I'm not advocating belief
in UFOs or UAP, but definitely I became
convinced that there was definitely
something to this when I met so many
people who interfaced with the phenomena
through their jobs and their jobs
happened to take them um high into the
stratosphere um you know uh launching
rockets into space so that they had a
view of what was happening um you know
in space. They've witnessed aerial
phenomena that are not ours and that are
not Russia's or China's. And when you
meet, you know, 10 of these people and
they all have similar reports,
um it's it's interesting. It changes
one's view. These people are not public.
Okay, they some of them are, but some of
them most of them are not. um they don't
want to be associated with this work
that they do. They don't want people to
know about it and um you know they're
kind of everyday Americans.
>> So basically what we have in terms of
like you know videos of fastoving
objects is if not the tip of an iceberg
at least a piece of a larger hidden
phenomena that many people have
encountered who go into the sky or into
space.
>> That's correct. Yes. Okay. Is there
anything else that has convinced you?
>> Yes. Um I've also had insight into the
counter
intelligence uh that's against
the outing of this information.
And it's it's a rough situation here
because you know you have people that
are out there talking about it and
saying we need to be transparent about
this. This is real like Ryan Graves,
right? And then you see
>> who is one of the one of the Navy pilots
become sort of an advocate for this.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> And then you see um push back against
him, public push back. You see even on
Wikipedia um like Dr. Gary Nolan, he's
at Stanford University. He studies this
and he has a foundation called the Soul
Foundation and their Wikipedia page was
taken down. my own Wikipedia page was
was uh changed a bit. So, you know, this
is why I'd like to stay out of this
space for the most part. Um because when
people are talking about it in a way in
which they're advocating for
transparency, I see that they do get
push back.
>> Okay. I I want to talk more about the
push back but just just on the
experiences themselves what do these you
know the 25 inner circle people who
communicate with you what do they think
they're studying
>> um so there are there are inner circles
and inner inner circles so um I would
say that
>> always
>> yeah so the people who I think have most
interface with this they don't know what
it is that's my opinion um But they
think that it's very important to study
um because it seems to be taking an
interest in us. Um I there is another
inner circle that again doesn't know
what it is but is able to do some you
know physics work and recognizes how
advanced the propulsion mechanisms are.
But also these people have interfaced
with it enough to know that it is um it
has some trickster elements. So this is
called they call they have a name for it
by the way. It's called the hitchhiker
effect. The idea that when a person has
an experience it often sticks to them.
It's like a hitchhiker. It goes home
with them. um and say they have an
experience and then they have sometimes
poltergeist activity in their home. Um
they might move and it moves with them.
And this is something that is to me
seems to be straight out of religious
traditions. Um because it looks like,
you know, the tricksters of of religious
traditions.
um and some of these people are able to
to extract themselves from this through
their own religious tradition. So this
is how religion then comes back in an
unexpected way to me. Um, no.
>> So, this is for, for example, this would
be a case of someone has one of these
bizarre experiences and then they go
home, right, and they suddenly have what
looks like poltergeist activity or
something around their house and they
call their Catholic priest to say some
prayers of exorcism. Is that what you're
describing?
>> Yes.
>> That kind of thing.
>> Things like that. Yeah.
>> So, they bring Right. So they bring a
kind of religious an attempt a kind of
religious resolution of what starts out
seeming like a science fiction issue.
>> Absolutely. Yeah.
>> Okay. And are there people who have
essentially again we were talking
earlier about the concrete religions
that have formed around UFOs. Are there
people inside the government who you
think have those kind of concrete
beliefs who are like, "Okay, these are
angels or demons, right? If they're
Christian, maybe they think they're
demons, right? Or these are literal
aliens from another planet who we are
speaking to. Are are there people who
get that concrete in the inner circles
you're describing?"
>> Okay. So, the people that I know um are
not being that concrete. However, um
they still experience the hitchhiker
effect and they some of them know that
if they, you know, um utilize the tools
of their own religion, whatever that
religion is, Anglicanism or Catholicism,
that it seems to help the hitchhiker
effect. Um but they also think that
there's, you know, a real phenomena that
they would like to backineer and and
utilize. Um so you know but
>> real tech real technology
>> yeah yeah absolutely
>> machines
>> yes yes they believe that they believe
that I believe yeah I have not seen
machines or anything like that but I
have
>> you have not seen
>> no no
>> have you have you talked to people who
claim they have seen machines
>> yes
>> okay and those people are where do those
people say they've seen the machines
>> inside I I can't say that but I can say
that I've talked to them about the
machines and they have not told me where
they've seen the machines.
>> Okay. Okay. So, this all right. So, this
is this is
>> I don't know if they've seen the
machines or not or if it's an elaborate
>> setup where they're they're seeing
something. Um so that's why I like to
stay away from most of the government uh
information about the topic and these
are people that are working for the
government with the government.
>> Right. Okay. So, I have I I want to
pursue a kind of frustrated line of
inquiry.
>> Okay.
>> Here. Right. So just a few weeks ago,
the Wall Street Journal ran a couple of
stories, but the first one was the most
important one that was drawing on a
different set of government reports
basically and leaks about the UFO
phenomenon that emphasized the degree to
which a lot of UFO material is based on
deliberate disinformation. that the and
the the sort of running claim in the
story was that repeatedly and
consistently the US government has
welcomed stories about UFOs and
mysterious aerial phenomena as a cover
for various high-tech national security
experiments. Um and so one example in
the story was there's famous case cases
really but one famous case of a UFO
encounter uh involving a nuclear
facility where nuclear weapons were shut
down mysteriously in association with an
aerial phenomena. And the claim in the
journal story was that the US government
was testing the effects of an
electromagnetic pulse in fear that the
Soviet Union would use this pulse
against our facilities. and the pulse
created a sort of weird, you know, a
weird experience for the people in the
facility and the government was happy to
have them believe it was aliens rather
than come clean about how we were
testing our own defenses. So that that
would be that would be one example,
right? Um and then related to that, the
the piece also suggests that there's
kind of like hazing and initiation
rituals inside the military where people
will be told, "Hey, we're studying UFO.
No, I can't show it to you. you can
never tell anyone about it. Goodbye. And
this is like a prank or it's a test and
so on, right? That this is part of
military culture, right? So that's that
story, right? You could take that story
and say, okay, this this kind of
layering of deliberate disinformation,
pranks, rumor, and so on helps explain
why so many people in the US government
believe there are UFOs, real UFOs,
right? And then you also have this sort
of persistent religious spiritual
phenomena that is like other religious
and spiritual phenomena. It's not really
amendable to study to scientific study,
right? It's amendable to sociological or
religious study, right? So why shouldn't
I, as a curious journalist or listeners
of the show just sort of take the Wall
Street Journal narrative as normative
and
you know say look you know if if there
were really if somebody really had a
piece of a spaceship
and you have these whistleblowers
willing to talk about it wouldn't
someone actually just show us the
spaceship right
>> it could be
>> that was a long that was a very long
question but but this
te tell me tell me what you make of
anything I've just said.
I mean, um, the the person who wrote the
Wall Street Journal article, which, um,
of course I read, um, seems to have a
conclusion, and I don't. So, there's a
conclusion that no, there's nothing to
see, right? Um, and I don't think that's
true. Um, but the conclusion that there
is something to see and it's an alien
spacecraft is also doesn't feel right to
me. So I always propose that we, you
know, and also the idea that it's a
cover up for tech absolutely could be
true. Um, but then you have to take this
into context. You know, we had this
program, a government program called,
uh, Project Blue Book and it was, you
know, run by Alan Heinek. Um, and
>> this is in the 19 the 1950s.
>> Yeah. All the way up through the 1960s.
And so, you know, in with this program,
there was a disinformation campaign by
the government to identify people who
were believers and spreading belief and
basically stigmatizing them, right? And
so, this is something that we still have
inherited. We've inherited the project
blue book. And then we have the Wall
Street Journal article coming out. No,
it's just the opposite. The government
wanted you to believe in that. I mean,
I'm sorry. It's just a very confusing
scenario. and I choose not to pay
attention to that there's disinformation
about this. I think that's the first
thing people need to know is that you're
not going to get the straight story like
I said earlier from the government. The
government is telling us two different
contradictory things. The story lies
elsewhere or the the answer lies
elsewhere.
>> Wait. Okay. But I I don't agree with
that. So first, where does the answer
lie if it doesn't lie?
>> Okay. I'm I don't know. But I'm not
going to say that the answer is that
there's nothing or that there's
specifically this thing. Okay. So I
think it's a lot more complicated.
You're saying, right, you're saying that
there is, you're saying that there is a
phenomena that appears to have both
spiritual and science fiction elements
that is accessible in some way, not just
to, you know, a crazy person in a field
late at night, but to, you know, members
of the most high-tech military the world
has ever seen. And it seems to overlap
with people's perspectives about
visitors from other planets, trickster
gods, angels, demons. Right. Okay.
That's really interesting.
But you're also saying that there are
different factions within the government
that have different agendas about how
much people should know about this. one
of those factions you're friends with by
your own description and that is the
faction that from your point of view
wants you know wants us to have a
conversation like this one right for for
the New York Times right and my question
is if that faction not not the whole
government just that faction in the
government the kind of people you're
talking to if they have some evidence
that goes beyond
powerful personal anecdotes
Why can't they just give it to us?
>> And that's where I think the Wall Street
Journal actually gets it right. Um
because most likely it has to do with
something that the government needs to
keep secret. And I respect that.
>> You think that the
>> So going to be Yeah. something that even
wait something that even the even the
faction so there's this term that people
in the UFO world use called
>> disclosure right which capital D right
which is the idea that at some point
>> you're going to have you know there's
secrets that the government knows that
will be disclosed and or there are
people who want there to be disclosure
but this hasn't happened yet right
>> correct
>> but you're you're saying that even the
people who are pro- modified limited did
disclosure agree that there are things
here that are so secret that they just
can't reveal them.
>> I mean, I think that if they thought
that there were national security
issues, they would definitely think that
we should not disclose them. Absolutely.
>> But then why are they coming forward and
testifying before Congress, right? So
there's there's a guy, one of the names
we haven't mentioned is David Grush, who
is another another whistleblower who
again had completely legitimate
government credentials um both inside
and also outside organizations that were
doing some of these investigations.
Grush came forward as a whistleblower,
did the podcast rounds. He was on Joe
Rogan, right, for a long long period
long conversation on Joe Rogan.
Testified before Congress. Said a lot of
really wild stuff that goes beyond the
more limited nuance, right? Said said a
lot of really wild stuff
>> and then essentially disappeared as a
figure in the public eye. But if you
listen to David Grush, you had the sense
that David Grush and people like him
want something to be revealed if you
take them seriously.
>> Yes. if they want something. Nobody.
Okay. No one assassinated David Grush.
>> He was written about in the New York
Times. He testified before Congress. You
know, you talked earlier about like, oh,
there's push back to this stuff and
it's, you know, harsh edits and on
Wikipedia pages, right? Like, this is I
feel like we've demonstrated in the last
few years that if you want to be a
whistle a UFO whistleblower, the
cigarette smoking man is not going to
bundle you into a car and take you away.
you can you can go be a whistle UFO
whistleblower. And if that's true and
the whistleblowers say they want to
reveal something and then it doesn't get
revealed, then I default back toward the
Wall Street Journal narrative where it's
probably layers of disinformation
concealing, you know, top secret drone
programs, which by the way, one reason
we're having this conversation that that
is also a really interesting story,
right? Like if it is the case that you
as you know as a serious academic are
being made use of by people in the
government who want to cover up crazy
drone technology. That would be pretty
interesting too. I think all the answers
here are interesting. I just would like
to know what they are.
>> Yeah. So I don't think we can have those
answers. So you know um I'm here to
study this. I've studied it and I think
that the transparency that people want
from the government is not forthcoming.
Um, sorry that you want that answer. I
just don't think it's coming.
>> But I don't want transparency from the
government writ large. I want the next
whistleblower who's a human being, a
representative of the government to come
forward and take the further step of
saying, "Hey, someone showed me an alien
spacecraft and by the way, it was in
this base here and Congress people can
go see it." That that's or here is the
document that I was given that persuaded
me. That's that's what I want. And I
don't I don't think that's an
unreasonable thing to ask. And again, I
just think the retreat to sort of
unknowability and mystery takes me back
towards the, you know, disinformation
and that there's nothing truly concrete
here that should convince me. Um, what
do you think's going to happen in the
future?
>> Um, okay. So, probably more of the same.
I mean, you're you know, I'm not here to
try to advocate for you to believe,
frankly.
>> Uhhuh.
>> So, what do you think's going to happen?
>> I don't know. That's why I'm
interviewing people who have spent a
long period of time talking to people
who are research researching this issue.
So you but but you're saying basically
we should expect over the next 10 years
every six months to two years some you
know someone with a national security
credential comes forward with a somewhat
compelling account that can't be
verified of some kind of UFO encounter
that the government was studying and
this will just go on.
>> Yeah. So we and the internet will cycle
the internet will cycle we should look
away.
>> Yeah. We should look away.
>> All right. Good. So this will be the
last public interview ever conducted
about this subject and people will just
look away for the foreseeable future.
>> No. Okay. So about the government's
response to it, that's what I'm
suggesting. So my last book was
encounters and that book basically said,
why are we spending so much time paying
attention to what the government has
been telling us since the 1940s? People
are actually having real experiences.
Let's turn to them and you know and talk
about this. So that's what I would
suggest.
So yeah, if we're going to focus here
on, you know, I can see you're very
upset about that or you're just not
happy. But why do we, you know, I mean,
>> I'm not I'm never as as an interviewer,
I'm never upset. I just have a I have a
I have a persistent
>> level of frustration with things that
seem to me to be
>> secrets that are within the capacity of
human beings, journalists, and so on to
uncover. If you if you just want to tell
me that, you know, there are weird
things in the world, there are more
things in heaven and earth, Ross Dowet,
than are dreamt of in your philosophy, I
obviously believe that, right? And I'm
certainly comfortable with the idea that
there are there are phenomena that
people encounter that are not amendable
to study by scientific authorities or
anything like that. I'm just frustrated
by the persistent claims that there's
something more here that does seem
amendable to revelation that I would
just like to know a little bit more
about.
>> I think you can know more about it, but
you're looking in the wrong place. So,
I've said before I'm separate from the
government. I don't, you know, I'm not
advocating for a position. And it could
very well be that what the government is
doing is purposeful. So this this you
know arena of of confusion that you're
frustrated by that's actually purposeful
and so they've done a good job right
because you know here you are
interviewing me we could have been
actually talking about
>> you know the phenomena and people's
experiences of it but we're talking
about why the government is not being
forthcoming and my position is because
that's not what they intend to do. Their
intention is to make it confusing and
they've done a very good job of that.
>> Okay. So, let's through two two final
questions. You've talked about going
from being skeptical and agnostic to
believing. You've talked about the
apparent unknowability of what is
actually going on here. You've also
mentioned that you're like me, a Roman
Catholic of some sort, right? Like if I
forced you through, you know, some truth
serum developed on Alpha Centuri by, you
know, by by aliens to make a bet on what
it is, the phenomena,
extraterrestrials,
the supernatural,
the lost civilization of Atlantis hidden
beneath our seas for low these thousands
of years. What would you bet?
>> It's a variety of things.
>> It's more than one thing.
>> It appears to be.
>> Okay. Give me two examples of what that
thing is to it's variety. Just two two
different things. What is it?
>> Um it appears to be a perennial thing.
So there appears to be something that
interfaces with humans. um and has been
has been identified in the various
traditional religions and um I
>> identified as what?
>> Well, I'm not going to name it because
in some traditional religions it's named
in different ways. So it could be bodhic
safas, angels, um demons, things like
that.
>> Okay. So it so so so it's it's no that's
good. So it's so it is intermediate
intelligences between
God and human beings. Some of whom have
our best interests at heart and some of
whom don't
>> and those different religious traditions
have protocols for dealing with these.
>> So you know so okay so there's that
>> but that was a yes you you agree that's
that's part of what you think it is.
>> Um I think some of the phenomena is that
not all of it.
Yeah. Then there appears to be some type
of um technology that is either in my
opinion this is the truth serum in my
opinion either is ours or if it's not
ours it's amazing.
>> Okay. And that would but but you think
it could be ours. And so in that in that
so in that theory
>> just you you would have a kind of loop
of on the one hand
authentic experiences that map onto
the great religious traditions and at
the same time some kind of government
cover up or secrecy around
remarkable technologies that we aren't
aware of. Are those two things linked or
is it just is it just a marriage of
convenience then that the government is
happy that people have these kind of
supernatural experiences because it
makes it easier to cover up the amazing
technology.
>> Yeah, that's the question I ask myself.
I don't know if they're linked.
>> Okay. All right. So then last All right.
So last question because you have been
trying to pull me away from the
government and back towards the personal
experiences and so on. What can you know
nice secular readers of the New York
Times who have been baffled by this
conversation let's say take away from
the personal side of it the direct
encounters that people report having.
>> Okay. So I think what's really important
is that most of us grew up with and were
educated within this worldview and I
call it the Thomas Jefferson worldview.
And Thomas Jefferson didn't believe that
Jesus was divine. and he believed that
Jesus was a really good person. And he
even went so far as to rewrite the New
Testament. And he took out all the
references to miracles and all the
things that you know all the references
to angels and demons and exorcisms and
healings and things like that. And there
was the Jeffersonian Bible. Okay. So I
would say that for me what these
experiences did was it I was a you know
I had a Jeffersonian worldview. I was a
secular Catholic. Okay. What these these
experiences did was they jolted me out
of that worldview and into the
Shakespearean worldview where you know
there are things that we don't
understand and why don't we you know
understand that we don't understand them
instead of just doing like the Wall
Street Journal did and just say no
nothing to see here. Well the world in
the cosmos is a really beautiful place
with a lot of mystery. So that's what I
would suggest.
Okay, I endorse that take very strongly.
I'm going to give you one more chance to
tell me who it was who told you they had
seen an alien spacecraft and where
because you know it's the New York
Times. It's an audience of at least
dozens if not millions. Don't you want
to be the person who blew the lid off,
you know, the secret government
conspiracy, Diana?
>> No, I don't aspire to that.
All right, Diana Walsh Pasulka, thank
you for bearing with my frustrations and
thank you for this conversation.
>> Thank you so much.
[Music]